Check us out on our website, healaccenter.org, Facebook, Twitter.
Let me tell you a little bit about upcoming event on Saturday, March 26th.
It's the second of our programs on Genius.
This is Understanding Genius Women.
It's organized by poet, visual artist, and
Healac Center Executive Committee member Anne-Marie Levine.
Anne-Marie will be joined by Joyce Chaplin from Harvard, Kathleen Keat from Trinity College,
Darren McMahon at Dartmouth, and Susan Seymour from Pitzer College.
Today's program is the Betatative State, and I will briefly introduce our participants.
Sarah Lazar, Assistant Professor in Psychology at Harvard Medical School,
Peter Malinowski, Senior Lecturer in Psychology and Cognitive Neuroscience at Liverpool John Moore's University,
Coshan Paley Ellison, co-founder of the New York Zen Center for Contemplative Care,
Morgan Stebens, supervising analyst Jungian Psycho Analytic Association in New York,
Iyuan Tang, Professor of Psychological Sciences, Texas Tech University.
We'll start.
Yeah, I think.
So we start first?
Yeah.
I think it's my pleasure to be here to share the research and the application related to the meditative mind,
the meditative brain.
So also I'm honored to have the colleagues here, the audience here.
So it means we have a similar interest.
Hope our discussion can facilitate understanding about this topic or may help your practice.
For myself, I'm a neuroscientist and psychologist, but I'm also a long-term meditator.
Yeah, 10 years ago, I moved from China to US, so I've been a professor in China since 1987.
So I moved here, Professor of the University of Oregon first,
I moved to Texas Tech University.
So this is my background, so I can share the idea related to the neuroscience mechanism of mindfulness meditation or meditation.
Or I can and also can share the practice experience of myself when I learn in China.
So I started practicing when I was six.
Yeah, so it's a tradition.
So maybe I have a different view from yours that you can help me.
So I have a question for the researchers, but you haven't since you jumped in.
In my reading of the research, I haven't been able to find a coherent definition of meditation.
It's a perfect idea, I will leave to my colleagues.
That's a good question for someone else.
I'd say for them.
Yeah, no, I think many of us try to dodge that question.
Because when we turn it, we ask the contemplatives and they say, well, you know, because there's the meditation that we all think of where we sit and we watch our breath, or we focus on something.
But there's also meditative traditions, sorry, the scripture reading.
And there's a lot of different ways to meditate.
So I think it's one of those.
Simone Vile is one of those.
Exactly, yeah.
So personally, that's why I pick mindfulness.
I pick MBSR.
Someone who even says there's not even really meditation.
So I try to avoid that question.
So meaning you pick a definition or a form that's already established and then investigate it.
Okay.
Yeah.
I actually, I also, I agree with Sarah.
Even trying to, if we would try to define meditation as like, with the definition that covers the whole field of meditation, I think we would give a very wrong impression.
I think we would, it would suggest that somehow all these different approaches and Sarah mentioned a few that one could somehow bring them together and find some fundamental similarities.
Maybe, and then from the research perspective, maybe similarities in brain states or brain dynamics or whatever.
And I don't think this is possible.
But I completely agree with Sarah that the practices that somehow we cover very vaguely under the term meditation, they're so, they can be so different that it would be a few times to think that one could all lump it together.
Sure.
So I think so that an overarching definition would suggest otherwise.
I completely agree.
That's probably why I asked the question.
Yes.
But it brings to mind another question which is that some proponents of some traditions think the idea of research itself is against the grain of what the tradition is for.
I mean, David Lopez is one of the big scholars in favor of that view.
I don't really have a comment because I like to read the research but to, does that come into play at all?
Yeah, definitely.
I mean, when I first started, you know, people told me you're not going to see anything.
It's all ephemeral.
You know, whatever you're measuring is not relevant.
I still get that actually.
You know, so you get changes in the brain.
What does it mean?
Right?
And so, oops, I'm really, this is not, I'm just here today.
So, and so, I guess I have a lot of different thoughts about it because meditation is vast.
Right?
And it's not like I feel like, oh, we're going to do one experiment and explain all of the meditation and one or two experiments.
I mean, it's going to be years.
I mean, pain is, I think, is a really good example.
People have been studying pain scientifically for 50 years, right?
And I think pain is just as ephemeral as the meditative state.
And, you know, they've learned a lot but there's still a lot they don't know and don't understand.
So, I think, you know, and I often look to the pain literature to sort of, you know, for parallels and whatnot.
I think it's a useful thing to look at.
And so, but I do think there, I don't know that we'll be able to explain all of the meditative state with neuroscience,
but I do think we can explain bits and pieces of it.
And I think that has some contribution, especially, you know, in the context of psychotherapy and medical,
using meditative techniques in medical settings and clinical settings.
Because then I think, you know, we have a sense of now of what's going on in the mind of someone who's depressed or anxious or whatever.
And we have a sense of what's going on in the mind of someone who's meditating and we can sort of see how there's maybe some overlap and how one might be able to help one another.
So, I think in a very limited sense, we can get at some aspects of it, but maybe not enlightenment,
which is none of those things that no one wants to define, right?
So, and I think that's the part of my thing is, you know, if you can't define it, you can't study it.
So, yeah. So that, that was what we can define. We'll try to study.
And I guess if it's that broad, then we have to define little pieces and study that and put them together.
Yeah.
It's so amazing. You know, I'd spent the morning and a meditation retreat and, and coming here,
I had to leave the retreat to come here, which was felt kind of ironic in a certain way.
I have to stop meditating to go to talk about meditating and, but also I was talking with maybe 25 practitioners, you know, one-on-one during the morning,
and they are all practicing Zen meditation. But I wouldn't describe any of them practicing really in the same way.
And how they're working with their mind in the same way. So I'm super curious to learn about how you work with variants of each person,
because very different, you know, even like some people are working and there's three different kinds of Zen meditation.
And then there's people, individual people working in those med, those branches.
I'm just curious about in terms of study, how do you study that? I'd love to learn.
Yeah.
Well, personally, I mean, so we try to get people who are all doing the same thing.
That's why when I first did the first study, I did everyone, you know, even just for the possible meditation, you know, instead of just all meditation.
And now, you know, with MBSR, it's like people going through and so, but it's hard to know, even then.
Because even though they may be listening to the exact same tape, what they're doing is different.
But the idea is that hopefully they're more or less doing the same thing.
I don't know if you have other ideas.
Do you want to see first?
Yeah. This would be the idea and the hope, you know, that if people are instructed in the same way, follow the same approaches that actually also they do the same.
And then this is reflected, for instance, in brain activity being similar.
Sometimes it seems to be the case, but we have also carried out studies, one particular study where we worked with Tibetan Buddhist meditators, all from the same tradition, all going through the same training, all having the same meditation teacher.
And when we studied them, during different meditation states with magnetic encephalography, basically picking up the magnetic signal that the electrical activity produces, the electrical brain activity produces.
What we found is a consistent pattern of activity that was where we find any similarity across these, I think, around 14 participants.
So then we also scanned their teacher. So, and he basically, if you had never seen anything from neuroscience, no idea actually what you're looking at.
And we just show someone, the visual representation of the brain waves, if you want.
And then actually everyone who has eyesight could see this one is different. So whereas at maybe at an intermediate level, there is a lot of variation.
But maybe they are very advanced states, maybe converges more. But I think from my perspective, it's too early to really answer this question.
Actually, this question related to the research and also application. Number one, like a sorrow and a poor on post-set.
So when we want to study one form of meditation, let's see, mindfulness meditation or just meditation.
So you try to find the same teacher, same technique, similar participant, you want to control all the factors.
It's not easy. I'll give you an example. So when I was working in medical school at a professor, so I worked with a patient.
So I developed a master called integrated body management. Body management, not just mine. So we call it IBMT.
So we use the same teacher for the college students. So over the 500 subjects, just to see their similarity or their individual difference.
So we separate the question. Number one, to see in general if people can benefit from this training. Number one question.
So you know undergrad students, like American students, if you ask them, you do the mindfulness meditation for 30 minutes per day, they say, okay fine, I can do Monday to Friday. No, we can.
I'm so busy. So we do. So then we find that even though the five session of IBMT, so we find the improved attention ability, improved positive mood, decreased negative mood, but it's all self-report.
People argue, what's the objective markers? So we measure the cortisol, the celebrity cortisol to see all the stress hormone reduced.
Then we find the immune function factor at SGA, improved. So you see my work, but you look at the 500 subjects, you find their individual difference.
Even though you deliver same, like this environment, right? Everybody's here. Same environment, but does our brain interpret or perceive or process in a different way or same way?
So there are lots of study, just one important study. So if this moment, we measure everybody's eye movement, millisecond. So this is the topic.
You will find from Asian people, like Japanese, Chinese, over 90% eye movement, they focus on the environment.
But the four Westerners, English speaker, Canadian speaker, over 90% time, their eyes focus on the target.
Asian people, American people, they are in the same environment, but they perceive the information differently in the fundamental level.
But they all see the targets, all see the environment. So then we study their brain to see how the brain responds.
So then we find, even though the five sessions, 20 to 30 minute sessions, their brain activity change, like a brain wave, like the both signal, a pharma signal.
Then they even further go to five hours, so they change the y-metastructure, the structure. Also this structure change correlates with their emotional regulation ability.
When we want to reward the brain, let drive new, happy behaviors, so your brain structure change.
But we do find many, many individual differences. Then we measure the physiology, if you heartbeat, breathe, pattern, or change.
Then we provide them to do the working memory task, creativity task, attention task, then you'll find that most of people go to the similar direction,
but some people faster, some people later, some people in between. So they call the individual difference.
So I think there are lots of papers from Paul Sarah's group or my group, so we have a review paper talking about the neuroscience of mindfulness meditation, the whole field.
Then you'll find that even though many, many publications, many, many studies, but the field is still very young.
Because of scientific research, just one perspective that addressed part of the question.
However, this meditation practice is more experiential.
Like when I moved US from China, so the people said, oh, your message is excellent. Give me a menu.
Then I will study a menu, then we've done.
Yeah, this is the mindset that I always joke them, do you learn swimming using a menu in the water?
They said, no, I'm going to buy.
So we actually, you can study using a machine.
Yeah, I use a lot of scientific research method, but you can also study from a first-person perspective, from experience.
But this is still a mystery. I think neither lots of people work, not just from research.
Do you ever control for other activities that give you the same effects?
Excellent question.
So originally, in a field, many people did study, just use one meditation group before and after.
But recent years, people find that there are several publications.
Yeah, I think from some major labs, so they use mindfulness compared to another, even though the health education course,
so they find similar, non-signifying difference, at least the full papers I know.
So then people started, people started to use different control, active control.
So our study always used relaxation therapy.
So relaxation training therapy is good for the anxiety, stress.
So we never told participants, you are in the relaxation, you are in the meditation.
We just said, you are in the meditation and relaxation, so they believe the same.
So some people even love relaxation. They say, oh, that's good for me.
Some people love meditation.
So we did find, at least this version of meditation, IBM T, is better compared to relaxation training.
So other people use other methods.
And did you compare it with things like jogging or listening to music or, you know, there are a lot of things that change our mentality.
Yes, I think their study, they use yoga, they use physical activity.
Yeah, we had a study compared a long-term aging population for 10 years.
So one group, just a physical exercise, another group, IBM T, meditation.
So we find that they actually work on a different system, like meditation, more works on the central neurosystem, like a brain, mind.
And physical exercise, more works on the cardiovascular system.
But then they still work on the brain, just the different order of plasticity.
And we've done a study where we actually compared two different types of meditation, actually.
So we compared MBSR to Herr Benson's relaxation response.
And so they're both meditating. It's both eight weeks clinical.
And there's differences in the brains.
So I guess I'd also give it to your question a little bit.
But also self-report. Some of the self-report questions were very different.
You know, some things are the same. They both reduce stress very effectively.
But the psychological mechanisms by which they worked were different.
The physiology was different. And the brains were different.
And so we think that's really interesting in terms of potentially targeting different types of meditation to different conditions.
That's what I was going to ask. Conditions were people.
Right.
Personality structures.
Right. And there is a little bit of anecdotal evidence along those lines that some people, John Kevin's in years ago,
observe that people who tend to have a lot of worry in their head tend to do better with yoga and sort of the somatic practices
versus people who have more sort of body complaints do better with the meditation.
And then also in terms of anxiety versus panic.
You know, that people with panic tend to do a little bit better with mindfulness versus people with anxiety tend to do a little bit better with relaxation training.
And so again, no hard evidence on that.
Don't quote me on that one. But there's some little tidbits of evidence that suggests that that might be, you know, that there might be.
Right. I mean, an extreme example is I would imagine that someone with a panic issue wouldn't be a good candidate for a death meditation.
No. Yeah. Probably not.
Yeah. But also someone's having a panic attack. You don't say, oh, just calm down.
But you can say, okay, you know, you're panicking.
Even though you're just be mindful what's going on right now, be aware of it. And so they really respond to it.
You know, so that's the idea. But again, no evidence for that.
It's not yet.
So when you say that, what happens to the brain when you say, be mindful? What happens?
Yeah.
So there tends to be more activity in the insula, which is an area involved in interreceptive awareness.
And there tends to be turning off of the ruminative part of the brain.
And so it's a much more experiential experience, you know, which we do expect.
They've done a little bit with mindfulness and pain. And that's really interesting.
So if you look at placebo or distraction or, you know, cognitive restructuring and pain, they all look pretty much the same.
And all those forms of pain control, which you get is the front of the brain, which is like the executive part of the brain, turns on.
And the sensory part of the brain gets turned off.
So literally the front part of your brain is just telling the sensory part of the brain, just don't feel it.
But with mindfulness, you actually see the opposite. The front of the brain turns off, and the sensory part goes up.
And you think, what? What's going on there?
But when you think about it, that's what happens with mindfulness, right?
You're saying, just feel it without elaboration and without judging it, without trying to control it or stop it.
And that's exactly what we're seeing in the brains, is that they're not trying to control it, they're just sensing it.
But even though they have more sensory brain activity, and they're reporting that they feel it, you know, the same.
They report less, it doesn't bother them so much.
And the affect of the sensory part of it is the same.
But the affect of, like, oh, I don't like it, it's unpleasantness. That is less in the meditators.
So it does seem like it's a completely different way of doing pain control.
Well, that's interesting too, that it sounds like, I mean, those are different.
Meditations, different meditations seem to have a different effect on the brain, and it makes me think that one of my questions is,
what use is the person making of the meditation?
Because I think we've found that people can use meditation, you know, to, let's say, repress something or to explore something.
So, which gets us into a different level of the discussion.
Yeah, and maybe that different people need different things at different times?
Absolutely.
Yeah, I think it's useful. I like to think of a lot like exercise, you know, and so,
different types of exercise have very different benefits, like weight-bearing exercise versus cardiovascular, you know, cardio.
And you need different things at different times depending on your condition, and I think similarly with meditation.
Like, I know when I first started, I needed fast yoga.
There's no way I could do meditation when I first started.
But now there's no way I could do fast yoga, right? And I really like the slow meditative yoga. So I think, you know.
When you said that you essentially calm down the cognitive parts, but yet if I understood correctly, if you tell somebody, don't worry about it, it doesn't change it.
Or when you say don't worry about it, you're addressing the cognitive part.
I'm not sure I understand the question. Sorry.
In other words, why telling a patient or a person who's worried or anxious? Don't worry about it. Why doesn't that work?
I don't know. I don't know. I can help a little bit. Okay, go for it.
I think the people may know that one phenomena called a wide bear phenomenon.
Oh, yeah. So let's do a study. Just a short one minute. So do you mind close your eyes? Everybody? Yeah, close your eyes.
So just one moment. Then follow my instruction carefully to not think wide bear.
Do not please open your eyes. So what happened? You're full of web bear, right? Yeah, because I'm trying to mind just behavior like this way.
You want to suppress something, they will be back, right? So the life is full of opportunity, adventure, challenge or you think it's a bad part, a good part.
It's our label. We label this good or bad because we prefer that we think it's good. We don't prefer with that it's bad.
We try to avoid, right? So in reality, I think for the beginning, in the beginning state, like I'm doing meditation today.
So beginner. So I will try very hard to follow instruction, right? Try to suppress control method, emotion.
So then you find the getting in so the sensory motor, sensory or interception system increase.
Also the self control midline brain and to single cortex, they increase a little bit.
But in general, those are led for prefrontal effort control. They go down a little bit. But you struggle.
In some study, they find actually some study find decrease because people use different effort to get the same way, like strategy, right?
So then in the immediate part, in the middle part, you practice, sometimes you can control, sometimes you cannot.
So you are in the middle line. So you got the midline, PFC, insular, then you enjoy experience, meditation experience in some moments.
So you do reward system deeper called stratum, so star.
Then you are advanced, like we see advanced meditator. So even though they don't want to use very strong control, but they just be there.
So I propose two words, one called doing, another called being.
So do you mean that you do very, you work very hard, try to get something done?
It's American culture, right? We want the faster food, the faster life. Yeah, we work very hard, try to get what we need.
So you look at Asian culture, they propose being.
So sometimes being, just being with you, being with nature or environment, is still a strategy.
So the new goal called trying now to try, trying now to try life, you deal with the white bear, right?
You live with emotion, you live with things, you think it's bad.
So I give a talk about doing and being. So the audience said, why are you using being, being so confused?
Doing makes sense. So I joke with them, do you know what we called? We call the human being.
We don't call human doing, right? Yeah, just a joke. But you know, we may miss the same part.
And this part related to the brain function, brain structure, physiology chain in different levels.
So a quick question for you. Was that conclusion based on your research?
Or did it come out of the tradition that you were practicing?
Good question. You mean the doing and the being, right? Yeah.
Many years ago, this idea was from my practice when I worked with people, delivering the training retreat.
But recent years, I'm not alone. There are many, many scholars. They point out this being state.
So like the mindfulness meditation, we have a definition called, yeah.
So pay attention to the present without the judgment, right?
So it's easy description, but it's hard to make it. Only you can stay with the being state, acceptance, openness.
Then you can feel something. But this is not related to meditation. In your life, you have experience.
In some moment, you forget time, forget the environment, you just be there.
So give you, ask your own question. When you kiss your partner, in the moment you are kissing, do you mind working very hard?
No, you forget. You are there. Being there, right? I think that depends.
But here's a question for the researchers. How do you deal with familiarity bias?
How do you deal with the difficulty of not wanting to confirm in your research that you already want to believe?
Yeah, that's hard. You have to build in skepticism.
Or you try to work with skepticism too. The thing is also that even, because I see this with papers, they have to go through peer review.
So even if I'm a little bit biased, when I go out to reviewers, they're going to slam me.
So I really try hard not to try putting the posing point and try to think of alternative explanations.
Actually, I want to get back to your last question, though. There is something called neurofeedback.
And what that is, there's a really cool experiment that this guy at Yale did. He put people in a scanner who had never meditated before.
There's a part of the brain called the PCC. It's involved in the little voice in your head.
It's the mind wandering and the talking. And what he did is, when that part of the brain was active, they saw a lot of blue.
And that part of the brain was not active and quiet. It turned red.
And so they sort of explained to them how to meditate. And he put them in the scanner.
And then while they were meditating, they were told just watch your breathing.
And they got, saw on the screen, either blue or red, depending on the activity of that brain region.
And this one guy, he's watching his breath. But he couldn't make it go blue.
It just kept going red, meaning his mind was active. And they told him, you're doing it right, you'll see this go blue.
He's going to turn off. And the harder he tried, the worse a cot.
So then finally he went, oh, and he got the doing versus being.
And he realized he was thinking about his breath and like watching it and controlling it.
So when he stepped back and just observed the breath, boom, and that part of the brain turned off, and he got it.
And he got into a really deep state. So I think, because that was one of the questions you asked, was, you know, can you get at it scientifically?
And so, it's not one case, yes. And so now the guy is actually trying to do EEG in your own feedback.
And so, you know, so with beginning meditators, because lots of times it's true when you first start meditating.
You know, you're thinking about things and you're mind wandering and the whole thing.
So can you get that feedback from that one part of the brain and help you keep on track and help you be being instead of doing?
But I also wonder about the, there's a kind of a bias in the meditation world about meditative mind being relaxed and peaceful and...
Other?
We'll just meditate.
I think there's such a bias towards, whoa.
Exciting.
To peaceful and meditative. And I just wonder in some ways even what we're talking about. Because if, for example, myself or when I'm working with my teacher or when I'm working with my students,
if I'm always just like, you know, rainbows and unicorns and...
As much as I like rainbows and unicorns, it's not actually what I'm... why I'm practicing.
Right. And so I just wonder about the red and the blue, because I think if I'm not going into the red sometimes and knowing how to work with that.
Right.
Does that make sense?
Yeah, no, definitely. And so I think the idea is for the beginners, because often people, they get really frustrated because they never experience that really deep unicorn state, right?
And you need to be sort of in that deep... when you're in that deep state, that's when all of a sudden the stuff comes up and then you know how to work with it because you've done, because you've had the...
Oh, and those stepping back and just observing and the being.
And so I think you sort of need to learn that state first before you can dive into... because otherwise you're just a therapy. Right?
So...
Otherwise you're just in therapy.
What's that?
Right. And you're just in... you're ruminating and thinking, yeah.
Oh, yes.
So in the Jungian tradition, it's a long history of meditative states and we try to track the way the imagination is activated or not activated around certain images.
So it's just to address that question. It's not a chattery sort of thing.
Yeah, no, I know. I didn't mean to slam therapy.
No, no, no, no.
Not therapy, but yes. But it's sort of...
Everyone defends the thing that pays their bills, so...
Right. When I think I'm really good therapy, you often get people into that same state, though.
Like even the whole, you know, distancing and sort of seeing your thoughts is just thoughts, that whole thing.
So I think there is a lot of between notation and therapy.
But I guess that's sort of the difference though between just sort of like thinking about your thoughts versus stepping back and observing your thoughts.
Which again, I think good therapy gets you into that place where your stuff...
I think each one works for different people.
Yeah. Yeah. And they work really well together. That's my experience.
And just talking to other people, they work really well together.
One of the interesting pieces of research that I just read, which is not on meditation, is that apparently, in general,
of course, as a generalization, self-talk, kind of mentality states work better for men and worse for women.
Where's the problem?
I'll have to find...
How did they define works better?
Again, I'll have to find it, but it basically, you know, whatever you might define as a good outcome,
meaning better feeling about yourself, calmer, less panicked.
You know, you come out with a self-report and a, you know, so on. That's better, roughly speaking.
The other one's not so good.
I had some...
The question of what's better is a good one.
Yeah, yeah. No, I...
I had some thoughts about this question with buying feedback.
Because actually, when I'm giving talks about science of meditation and so on, this question comes a lot.
Can... maybe with the idea, maybe I can I speed up the processes and so on.
So far, actually, my view was very hesitant in this respect.
First of all, from my understanding of the insights we have so far regarding brain activity during meditation,
I would think... I would not feel confident to say, this is the signal, this is how the brain activity should look like,
for the state we're aiming at. So if I don't know this, what am I feeling back?
Yeah, so, okay, one can just try it and so on.
But if I don't know what the state looks like I'm aiming at, how should I give feedback, red, wrong state, green or blue or whatever, right state?
Yeah, so that's the one thing.
But then more from the perspective of meditator and meditation teacher,
also the beauty, I think, of meditation practices, that it's one of these approaches that doesn't require anything else than my mind.
Yeah, so we are so used to giving away responsibility, usually it's at least in the UK, it's drugs.
So we go to the pharmacy to help ourselves to get a quick fix and a faster result.
We like that around here too.
Yeah, I'm sure you do.
So, but now there's a method where I can say, you only need your mind, trust your mind.
You don't need any helmet, you don't need any EEGs, you don't need any confirmation from outside with the technology or whatever,
you only need your mind to practice.
And for me, actually this is an incredibly powerful method or message also,
which gives a lot of trust and confidence and you can also say responsibility to the person practicing or wanting to practice.
And that's from the perspective of the meditator, that's the most interesting for me,
all the strengths, all the qualities, all the insights, everything is in you, not in the machine you put on your head.
Well, I'm not a meditator, no, nothing of a meditation.
So you wake up in the morning, you meditate.
Then you go to work and you're bombarded with every possible conflict.
What's the difference between you who has meditated and me who hasn't?
Well, hopefully a lot.
So...
Feeling of self-justification?
Yeah.
So the idea is, you know, you can do practice meditation, and the idea of practicing it is that then when you go out into the world,
you can then use it. So the idea would be that you...
One person described meditation to me as becoming very intimate with the weather of your mind, right?
Because you're really... you're much more sensitive to the little thoughts and feelings that sort of flip by in the back of your brain.
And so you're more in tune with them.
So then when all that stuff happens throughout your day, you see them and you're less reactive to it.
And so you're... it's all the acting versus reacting.
I mean, he should probably answer this question, right?
So the neuroscience can't answer this, but for the teachers, they can tell you.
You're more calm, you're more centered, you're less reactive, and you know, you're just going to do it in a very different way.
That's if you define meditation as a separate activity.
Right. Well, ideally, yeah, the idea is that you can carry the mindfulness in particular.
You really can carry that throughout the day.
And then you really do see your thoughts as just thoughts throughout the day.
And then, you know, that in really with time, it becomes, you know, 24-7, which is idealistic, but...
It does... bits of it does carry through the day.
One of the questions I have is the relationship between the, you know, a goal state, which is a cognitive... an idea,
and whatever the process is that you find.
I mean, Jung had this fascination with what he called natural symbols versus symbols that came from a tradition.
And meaning, I wonder if there's anything that we could call meditation that isn't bound to a particular tradition,
and therefore wouldn't have the goal posts be already preset, at least rhetorically.
I think that's you.
I don't know.
You go ahead.
No, but I don't know. I don't know. And actually, I'm getting more and more confused as we talk.
In general, like, what are we actually talking about?
It's called mindfulness.
I think I've been meditating too much, you know, today. But I think that... but what I'm wondering about is actually,
even are we talking about... there are different schools of meditation, right?
And then there are subsets of all the schools of meditation, and then there are a million traditions of meditation.
And I'm actually curious too about what I notice really differently about people I work with,
and in myself, and in my own path, and in my teacher's path, is really this sense of... you know, the in Buddhism are the three jewels,
as they're called.
They awaken mind the teachings and community.
So... and I often get concerned, and I know it's a big difference when people are practicing with those three, and when they're not.
And usually, most meditators I find are really into the first two.
My own awakened mind. And I'm going to study and learn.
It's like so transactional in a certain level, but what about community?
And so to me, I'm so curious if there is... because I know that in my own journey as a practitioner has... that's like the most challenging and rewarding.
Part of it. Community or Sangha.
And most people are like, yeah, no thanks.
And because it's usually around our family of origin stuff, but it's... you know, how do we... I'm just curious in terms of... is that part of the research?
Or is it really just out of like a skill-based learning a technique?
Or are you really looking at our people landing in a tradition that actually supports them in terms of their own awake... you know, awakeness?
In terms of learning, ongoing learning, at least for a lifetime.
And then... you know, community.
Are they being supported by others and supporting others?
So to me, it's also the service piece, which is the natural... for me, it's been the natural response to... you know, a couple decades of meditative practice.
Because it's the only thing that makes sense in a certain point is being more loving as much as we can.
Although that doesn't... you don't need a community for that. You can choose whatever place that you're in and the people around you.
I mean, as an analyst that also has connections to lots of Dharma groups, I often find refugees from communities because communities have inherent goalposts and power structures.
And I find as much crossover the other way, you know, I think perhaps there's an ideal of community.
But I think these days it's a little more of a polyglot. At least I know it is for me.
And again, I think it's also interesting because how meditation is happening here in the West is very, very different than how it's happening in the East.
In the East you go, you have your teacher, you have a really close relationship with your teacher, and you live there, you know, in the community.
Whereas here it's like, oh yeah, I go once a week and see my teacher once a week versus, you know, and I'm doing my striving and my job and everything else like that.
So it is, I think, in also less times in some traditions, like you go, you meditate in silence and you leave and you may not even know who the people are around you.
So it's not necessarily even really community in the same, even the meditation centers, but alone in the science.
And I think the science varies tremendously. So again, my science is focused a lot on the clinical application, so we don't really look at that so much.
But there are definitely scientists who are very, very interested in that question and who are actively studying that.
So it varies. And I do think it is a really important key piece.
I think the issue of community certainly is I think a lot of healing can come about by finding your community, regardless of how you put that, and that could have an effect that looks like meditation.
Just from being embedded in the community where you do have a co-concern.
You seem to be saying that it's an inevitable outcome of the deepening of your meditation.
You were saying that it's a natural process.
So you weren't suggesting that it was cautious about saying what's natural. Because I feel like everything's natural.
I haven't found something yet that's not natural. I agree with that.
But I actually think it's the most terrifying for most people is to really be a part of something.
But I can just say from my own experience, really working through it and staying with the discomfort, which I've learned through my meditative practice,
and applying that to relationships over time.
But it takes both the community and yourself or your teacher and yourself to have the equal commitment to staying with it and exploring.
And to me, it's very powerful. And it's been so moving to do that and has completely changed me.
I don't know if that answers your question about natural.
I have the sense that there might have been a point on one side that the community orientation is an inevitable process,
but you weren't saying that. You were suggesting that there's a cultural, social context in which orientation arises.
I think if there's a meditation community, like there often is in mostly other places, but that's a very different kind of context than we have here typically.
Because I think what you're saying is that often here in the West, there's the least amount of emphasis placed on in the community versus in the East, there's much more emphasis placed on it.
But I think another question you're getting at though is that, so in Buddhism, the idea is that human light mint, the highest is a combination of wisdom and compassion.
And so compassion is a huge, and that is a natural outcome, I don't know if you want to use that phrase or not, but it is definitely one of the primary outcomes of meditation practice is really, really deep compassion for yourself and for others.
So do you think, but actually this is something I'm always wondering about, do you think that some people feel like that's an arrival, that's a destination point? And for me it's like a moment by moment, because like in one moment I'm like, how cool, and then I'm like a complete asshole.
But to me it's like practicing like that, it's also a coercive goal post. I mean it's very different than seeing what arises.
So there's a non-striving striving, you know, aspiration versus goal, right? Because I think again, in the tradition, the idea is that if you are striving for it, you're never going to get there. And so when you just, but you said it's an intention, but a very loosely held intention is the way it's described.
But why that intention? I don't know. I will say, from my experience, both in research and application part, so I started a practice when I was young, so no goal, just a tradition, you practiced.
So beginning... The tradition doesn't have a goal. The path is the goal. Because in Western mind we think we need to have a goal, goal setting. We make a plan. We follow the plan, we will get it.
Sometimes you can get there. Sometimes you're not. Like I have a strong intention, motivation, want to marry a movie star. I make a plan. Can you make it? Probably. Or probably not. Very likely not, right?
So I think in my experience, I practiced, so I got some insight just within my mind. I know I'm going to medical school. Yeah, I'm going to work with a patient. I practice my own. I learn from my teacher. I enjoy.
So when I work with many patients, I realize, oh, I want to involve more psychotherapy, psychology, because of behavior. I work with people. You talk about community. Yeah.
So then I develop a method of working with different people. So then I realize, oh, we missed another part, neuroscience. So we try to explain in a scientific way. So I work with their part.
So I never push myself. So you have a goal to go to community. This is your goal. So actually, we have an intrinsic motivation. It happens just when you can hear, when you can find, when you're aware.
So this is why 10 years ago, I created my university job in Chinese universities. I moved to the US. I feel something. So I moved here. So my colleagues said, this is a crazy idea. Yeah?
You are well established here. Why you moved there? It's a new country. You need to speak English, not German. So lots of challenge, but I feel something I want to do. So I just do it.
Also, I can just stay with China. I took some of my research. Fine. So I would think we have a different understanding about the goal. We have a different understanding about how to achieve a goal.
It's related to a learning question yourself, self-awareness, or what you call enlightenment, whatever you call it.
So some people who have been working in the meditation many, many years, they feel something they are higher compared to other people. They feel different.
But actually the same. Many people never meditate. So they still have good experience in life, understanding life. Like I was a long-distance runner. When I was young, I ran lots.
During running, I feel the state similar as a meditation. I feel that. So you're reading the book, you're watching the movie, you chat with a friend.
So you're just daydreaming. You are in the state. It's not a mystery. So I would think the meditation just is attitude. It's a skill. It's a decision. Whatever you want to do.
You say, I don't want to meditate. I want to physical exercise. Fine. So even though for meditation, I think we should keep a balanced way about a meditation.
So we open. It's a journey. This is why I call it the passive goal.
Rather than I have fixed goal, rigid goal, I need to do something because we have a lot of suffering just because we only have a well option.
We say, I only can do this way. I can be happy. I can be succeed. Actually it's not. So you use a term called moment.
Moment moment. You can moment mindful. Moment meditation. Moment happy. This is life. So you enjoy.
So I think we will be born and to be here to enjoy life rather than the suffer. Yeah, we can. Obama says yes, we can.
We can't suffer. We live a suffer. We live with this suffer. Right?
You think they are suffering and are non-suffering together. Make us whole. So there's a different view.
Sarah, are there any studies with monks who pray all day? Oh yeah.
I don't mean Buddhist monks. I mean Catholic monks. Oh, I think there's been a few. I think so.
A few study. Yeah, not as many. Not as many. And is that different than meditating and mindfulness?
Yeah, I don't know. There are two studies. Two study related to the prayer.
It depends on the different type of prayers. Some prayer, just a prayer for something like a mancho.
Some just like compassion based the prayer. Yeah, so thinking about the goodness, well for others, the different practice.
So they find some overlap in the middle line of the brain.
Middle line. So anterior to posterior. Middle line. Because this middle line brain related to yourself.
Perception. Self-processing. Yeah. Also there are study related to how the hypnosis is similar different from meditation.
Yeah, it's interesting study. We also have a similar result. Yeah. So we compare the hypnosis and IBM T.
So then we use a sjup task. So you name the red. But I can read the color, the word, or in green color.
So you say the red color is faster. So red in green color is slower. You get conflict.
Psychology is always make trick. So people try very hard. Yeah. So then many, many people find after, before after hypnosis.
So you find that the brain change because hypnosis can block your visual input.
Hypnosis said, yeah, you never see nothing meaningless. So your visual system processing back in the region, in the back region.
So the blocked. So this white information cannot transfer to the frontal lobe, cannot process a conflict.
This is the hypnosis study. So if you use IBM T.
You find visual input still there, then the region, brain region that's responsible resolving the conflict, they work harder to resolve the conflict.
Then behavior level, everybody perform the same. So brain level is quite different.
So I like sports analogies. So running, swimming, golf, weight training, there's perhaps some common benefit.
But they're also very, very different. You can gain very, very different skills and use different muscles depending on what you do.
And my sense is that the same is truth, meditation. That there's going to be some things that are common, but then each is going to have also things that are unique.
And so I'm guessing with the prayer that there's going to be certain similarities that will be very similar to the Buddhist meditation, but other things will be very different.
Doesn't make a difference. I don't know. I mean, it's more, I don't know, and I think it's important.
I think sometimes the way the researchers portray a lot of the meditation research, there's a little bit of a holier-than-thownness with it.
And like, oh, and we meditated, and we're better than you. And I'd really try to avoid that. Because I think it backfires, right?
There is this huge anti-meditation movement now. There's anti-mon... Yeah, there's a lot of backlash.
And I often get this question. What about prayer? What about touchy? What about other forms of meditation?
Because there is sometimes this sense of, oh, mindfulness changes the brain and it's only mindfulness and it's better than everything else.
And I really try to convey to people that that's not the case. Like, this is what we're studying, so this is what we know about.
But it's not better. It's not... I mean, it's just different, but it's not necessarily better than other types of prayer or other mind-buddy therapies like Tai Chi or yoga.
And that each is going to have certain benefits and they're going to have things that are common, things that are unique.
But I think at the end of the day, they all have similarities of spiritual transformation and feeling whole, feeling one, these sorts of things.
And so I think that's... That's what's beneficial. And so I think... So for me, it's not trying to say, oh, meditation changes the brain.
It's, oh, how does meditation change the brain so we can understand how meditation works?
So I think that's a slightly different goal in the research. It's not trying to say, oh, yeah, we're better because we changed the brain.
What can we learn from this?
I wonder what would happen if you called it something different.
What do you mean?
Well, I mean, as an analyst, one of those days...
Well, exactly.
What's your reputation?
Repidation, yeah.
Right. I mean, you know, the question for me often is what's the fantasy about what this is going to bring you?
Right.
What's the interest in that particular form or the thing you've heard about it?
That's a level that a lot of people relate to it on.
Right.
So, yeah, what if you said we're going to practice trepidation? I love that.
Well, that's an interesting question, you know? And because there's this whole idea of intention matters.
And actually, that's a huge thing right now. Even just within mindfulness, like, you know, if you go and you meditate for the purpose of reducing stress,
if you meditate with the aspiration of inteding enlightenment, is the same thing that can happen to your brain?
Even though you may be focused on your breath, is it different?
Probably yes.
And as an analyst, we have to put all of that into question because you have to wonder what's the role of the unconscious?
Oh, yeah.
I mean, right? I mean, the neurological studies show that most decisions are made below the level of consciousness.
So, I'm not sure intention matters.
Attention or intention?
Intention.
Oh.
You guess it does.
Well, but again, so begin, this is why meditation takes, you know, 30 years to, or more to attain a light.
I mean, usually, right? You could run an entire lifetime. But I mean, it's some, I don't know.
Well, I just, what I'm drawn to is the mythology around Buddhism. And who knows? We know that something interesting happened 2,600 years ago.
Maybe it was a person. But, you know, the mythology story that I like so much is that he was, you know, there was this guy.
Maybe it was a guy. Maybe it was a woman.
Probably was a woman, you know. And, you know, and there was a person there who was very secluded, right?
And trapped in their own little story that somebody else gave them, like most of us.
And then he goes outside of that story and encounters a sick body, a very frail elderly body, and a dead body.
And to me, that inspiration of like, oh shit.
This is what's going to happen.
This is what's inevitable. And then what?
And so to me, the motivation is, I always have very deeply resonated with that.
So how, if your actions are your only belongings, how are you going to function?
And if we don't really face our vulnerability and frailty, what are we going to do?
So, and it's easy to say. But hard to do.
Yeah, related to the intervention.
Yeah, related to the intention and the motivation, I think.
We certainly have a consciousness. Yeah, we are weak right now.
We also certainly have unconscious processing.
It's for sure.
In meditation world, even though you change the name, because the name certainly has a meaning,
because name is kind of suggestion.
Right? I have a Chinese name called the Yiwang. Yiwang means one source.
It's Chinese name. But people give me another English name, call me Mike.
Right? But I have too many close colleagues. They call Mike. So we get confused.
So you call me Yiwang, call me Mike. I'm the same person.
It doesn't matter with the label, right?
But regarding the intention, I give a private study.
A private study to share with you. Yeah.
So you know the smoking quitting is very hard.
Over 90% of smokers try very hard every year to quit smoking, but they failed.
They have a strong intention, because therapy said, unless you have a strong intention,
then you can succeed. Why this smoker has a strong intention over 90% fail?
Certainly there is some underlying reason related to the unconscious change,
the habit, lots of things. So we have a study, very simple study.
So we recruit a subject from campus, campus smoker.
We never told them, we are going to help you quit smoking. No.
So we ask them, are you interested in improving attention?
They say, yes. Are you interested in stress reduction?
They say, yes. So they come here. So we deliver the meditation, compare to relaxation training.
So before study, we compare a smoker, non-smoker, their brain.
Then we find that the smoker has a deficit in the self-control center in the brain here.
It makes sense. Lots of study shows. Behavior level, they have a 20-secret per day,
all this stuff. So we deliver the training, nobody really knows the goal.
It's attention, right? Stress reduction, no quit smoking.
So after 10 sessions, 30 minutes per session, within two weeks, we scan the brain again.
Then we find their center, self-control center, the deficit change, the improved activity,
the more control. Then we look at their behavior, even quit smoking.
So before, after we have a self-report study, we report screen everything,
every day how you smoke one. So most of the smokers said, before 20-secret, after 20-secret, 20,
so we are confused because we have a machine.
The machine can measure their air in their lungs when they smoke, how they smoke, how many smoke.
So it's objective. So objective show, not 20-secret, only 10-secret,
but a wide smoker always reports 20. It's a habitual response.
So we show them this data from the machine. Can you check your pocket right now?
So they check, they say, oh my God, usually I should nothing call 20, but right now I got a 10 left.
It means I only smoke 10-secret per day. So the smoker will not aware the behavior change.
So their study indicating smoker has self-awareness deficit.
This why, they just have a habitual response, every day response.
So we also find over 60% smoking reduction, 30% smoker quitting without the intention to quit smoke purposely.
So this study. So in conclusion, we have ongoing study, it means
when you want to change the habit, we always think of the habit bad, I want to kill this habit.
So you actually put lots of attention. You emphasize.
But right now, we don't talk about a bad habit. We create a new pathway.
Yeah, you build a new habit. You build something, then the habit is strong, strong, strong, then the old habit disappear.
Just like a river, go that way, I never stop the river, but I get another path so stronger.
So seeing an unconscious mind and conscious change make a lot of things, but we are not aware.
Just idea. But I have a data.
There is a lot of talk of mindfulness. Over the last two years, I hear it constantly.
And people who seem to practice it, I don't know exactly what it is.
But people talk to me about it, and they all seem to feel very positive about it.
And they feel it changes their way of looking at their life, at the world and so on.
So is this something we should be teaching children at kindergarten level
in order that they have a different view of the world as they grow up?
Do you know what hovering attention is?
Oh, they can't do it. But you said you did it when you were six.
No, no, no, no. Definitely kids can do it. Hovering attention, right?
What attention? Hovering attention. Yes. That's mindfulness.
Right? So that's something that I told therapists know about, right?
Because it's ideas that when you're in a therapy session, right?
That you're aware of what the person is saying, which are also aware of your own reaction to what they're saying.
And you sort of use the meta-awareness, right?
The awareness of your awareness, awareness of what's going on. That's the mindfulness.
But my patients who are in analysis, they don't live after 50 minutes and think, boy, this was so fantastic.
It changed my view of the world and the sky is bluer.
In fact, sometimes the opposite is the case.
That's okay, right? Because that's what he was trying to say is that with meditation,
it's not always, again, then this is where the intention comes in.
Because during the therapy session, you're focused on the other person. You're not necessarily focused on,
you know, that what you would focus on with you were meditating.
And it is because it's also the non-judging. So there's the awareness, the hovering attention,
but there's also the non-judging and working with what comes up in a very specific way.
So the mindfulness is both together.
How would you relate Ellen Langer's view of mindfulness to this?
Very different.
Right, so the mindfulness word is tricky one.
Definitely.
I love her view and her work. It's totally different.
Right, and even, so there's John Kepitzen's definition, which is paying attention in the present moment
in a specific way, non-judgmentally, because even there's a ton...
It's a lot of words.
Yeah, there's...
There's even that's controversial. Not even everyone agrees with that definition.
But that's one that most...
You know, is probably closest kind of sort of to what people are talking about.
But it's sort of...
It's present moment and awareness of...
I love it, but the sensory experience too, as opposed to...
But it's also based on an early text.
It all comes from a very early text, which is, you know, mindfulness is an aspect of the meditative path.
And, you know, it's also in the Sati Patana Suta, where that it comes from,
is like a deep exploration of your decaying body too.
So I hope...
And other things, yeah.
No, but it's a pretty substantive part of it.
And I just...
I like to advocate for that.
When we talk about mindfulness, it's like to think about, you know, that you're going to die.
And actually, it really encourages you to...
So when I think it gives a little fire to the whole idea of mindfulness,
because I know many people come to our center, like,
I'm ready to get my Zenon, a little mindfulness on, and, you know...
And I'm like, okay, well, you know, let's look at this, you know?
And so I think in some ways the reality of our own death is also part of what makes you...
You could say things become very vivid, or what you were talking about, or, you know...
My Zumi Roshi, who's the founder of our lineage, is, you know, why he talked about the only thing that makes sense,
is to truly appreciate your life, because to be mindful is actually to realize we have just a short time.
And so in realize we have a short time, it's like, oh, right.
All right, let's sit up here, you know, and pay attention.
So I think also mindfulness has to have that component.
Just telling somebody to be aware of your mortality constantly.
That's a stoner.
That's not a bad way to go.
But it's not that easy to be aware of one's mortality all the time,
where other things are constantly happening.
You'll have to sit in a room and just keep saying, I'm mortal, I'm mortal.
How do you...
No, I'm in...
That's what they call the practice.
How do you achieve a state where you are without really giving it a lot of effort,
that you are aware of your mortality constantly, when our general intention in life is to live.
Everything is about living the cells of our bodies, or living.
We are living, we are looking to the future, we are looking to the evening.
Whatever we are looking forward to, it's all about living.
Not about the future, though.
It's about the right now.
That's the difference.
Like, right now.
Like, what if I told you, I knew, Bionna Shawad Dao,
that video is going to crash down in 15 seconds and then wipe us all out.
Right? What would you do these last 15 seconds?
Right?
So that's the thing, the idea.
The meditation is that...
One in 15 seconds is not enough time to do anything, but...
Well...
And also, isn't the present moment basically a mythology?
Who is claiming truths around here?
Yeah, not me.
I will say, I give example.
I appreciate your views.
Give example, let's test.
So if everybody here...
Is this going to change our views?
Yes.
If everybody here...
So you don't appreciate them that much.
We can leave 100 years here.
Right now, we can leave 100 years.
Let's see.
Maybe not.
Right? Let's suppose we can leave 100 years from now.
So 100 years means 36500 days.
Right?
More or less.
So now you calculate how old are you right now?
So you say, oh, I only have 10,000 days.
So you calculate same truths, but you calculate differently.
Now you realize, you realize life is short.
Life is short.
You need to give yourself some time.
At least the moment that you think, why, how, what I should do in a short life.
We always suppose it's a long time I'm going to die.
We never think.
But you calculate the days.
No more left.
This is why we need to do important things in your life.
Right?
You do important things in your life.
Actually, you take responsibility for yourself.
You help your family.
You help society.
American code is land with freedom.
Everybody wants freedom.
In undergrad dorm, everybody in the mean night at 2 a.m.
They still know this.
It's my freedom.
It's my right.
They never consider others.
So this country needs responsibility.
You think yourself take your responsibility.
Then without the meditation, you can still do good things.
I think this important doesn't matter.
You call it a mindful meditation, yoga, whatever you call.
But in the essence, the spirit remains the same.
The reality is still there.
Life is short.
Too important and good indeed.
I think this is important.
You know, a lot of discussion underscores reflective capacities.
And I'm curious as to whether there's any research that looks at what the
meditative capacities or the abilities of people, let's say, what is this ever taught to people with mental retardation?
Are there certain cognitive and or other capacities of the mind that are required in order to practice these kinds of skills?
And the same, you know, because Ed's question was getting at children, right?
You know, what cognitive and emotional capacities have come online that can make something like this possible?
Or is it not?
No, definitely.
And there's several initiatives right now to bring it into schools.
And so definitely it's being taught to kids.
Back in the day of the Buddha, they were supposedly seven-year-olds, you know, enlightened beings running around.
And they were, you know, and there's also some stories of, you know, of very mentally challenged people learning notation.
And then you'd have them sweep.
You know, just be mindful of sweeping.
How do you understand those stories?
Well, they're stories, right?
So, but, well, yeah, I mean, so you have to take them with a grain of salt, obviously.
But I think the idea being that you don't have to be, you know, a genius to do it.
Because I'm curious what you meant by the present moment is a myth.
But because that's the idea with Buddhism, right?
Is that all you have is the present moment.
Everything else is a myth.
The only thing that really truly exists is the present moment.
It seems like a lot of rhetoric.
Well, how is the present moment a myth?
I'm curious about that one.
I've never seen anyone operate without a reference to a sense of self, which is a historical thing,
or to at least short-term past and future to people they know, which is embedded in memory.
So how does that make this present moment a myth?
Because there's no such thing that we could talk about as a present moment,
except as a device within a traditional structure to get someone to do something.
I don't think I've followed that.
I don't know if I've understood this, but I mean, the way of, of course,
of defining the present moment is that it's a moment between the past and the future.
So in this sense, it's also nothing that can be found independently.
So I don't know if this is what you're...
I find that there are people that need to, for their own good, not according to my evaluation,
think more about the future.
Yeah, but my understanding is that the emphasis on the present moment,
being here and now and all kinds of metaphors in a way,
it is to make people aware of how much of their time they spent ruminating,
engaging with the past, engaging what is happening with what might happen in the future,
rather than experiencing themselves in the situation, and for this,
and this kind of metaphor of a present moment is used.
So be here, right, and all, but then if you look deeper, then where's this present moment?
I see it more like the pendulum often in our experience is so far either in the past or in the future,
so that actually is also the relationship that happens or can happen in a certain situation,
doesn't happen because our mind is somewhere spinning in other realms.
And for this, then you say, okay, bring the pendulum a bit more towards what is happening right now.
And then if you say, right now, then you can't find it right now.
Right, and I think experientially or in a relationship, you can find that and you can experience it.
So you just think that the way that it's used is very different in the rhetoric of the religions we're talking about.
Well, but actually I think it's sort of interesting what you just said because the whole point is to be in the present moment,
to lose that sense of self though. Like you said, if the present moment is a myth because you're always thinking about the past and the future, so...
You don't think us to express your true self?
To be in the present moment?
Isn't that to express your true self? Right, which is not your history or your future.
Why not?
Well, that's the point, right? That's what they're saying, that if you get into that moment that it is not future or so,
that's past or future that is something different.
No, we're talking about what other people say though.
Well, no, well, okay, I think I've had very brief moments of it, you know, and it is, it's different.
You know, it's just like a pure awareness.
I think the present moment, just present moment, doesn't need to lots of discussion argument because from the theory you'll never understand the moment.
It's just a moment.
Yeah, you sit down on a chair, then you feel your body touch there, it's a moment.
But many times we're not aware.
So, but just you cannot meditate for 10 minutes, 5 minutes, but you can meditate momentally.
That's it.
Right? In their moment, let's see, you forget past, put aside the future, their moment, so what's your mind?
What's your body? What's your emotion?
No thinking, just, I'm there, I'm here.
So you feel more space, more relaxed.
Right? But if you think now, thinking moment, you're still not in the moment.
I think it's based on experiential, experience feeling, this definition beyond the concept.
So I think in Western world, when I move here, I realize, yeah, the Western world love language, love concept, then action.
In Eastern world, they experience first, then they conceptualize later.
I think we can learn from each other.
So maybe, it's better. We label it's better.
Yeah.
Okay, I think we can go to the questions from the floor.
People could line up and please state your name and please make your comments brief in the form of question.
So, I guess the fun part.
Good answers.
Hi, my name is Nomi, I work in a library and I see what people choose to read.
And there is definitely an additive specificity to all the great traditions that we are discussing here.
Being mindful can also happen to a soldier, to somebody who is out there killing for the group that he or she belongs with.
So there is a suggestion that, you know, can mindful really evolve consciousness from eco-centric to ethnocentric to world-centric to cosmo-centric.
If people remain stuck with the group, they were raised in or the narrative that they consider are more sacred,
or they have been, have they made a difference for the last so many centuries that all these great narratives have existed,
have they created evolved human beings who are more world-conscious, more sentient, you know,
are there non-meat eaters among Jews and Christians and Muslims because that's not part of their narrative,
but it is part of Hindu and Buddhist narratives.
Thank you.
So, okay.
Question for Peter.
Oh, I'm sorry.
I mentioned the question was the response.
I got a last about a long description.
So, what's the actual question?
Did you reframe the...
All these great narratives have existed for a very long time.
Has it evolved humanity?
We're spending more than two trillion on weapons to kill part of human beings from all these great traditions.
Because there is definitely, religion is a very powerful force and meditation is an integral part of all great religions,
but is it making a difference to an individual in terms of becoming more world-conscious, becoming more sentient
in terms of the way we live everyday life?
Well, enough one, yes.
Certainly for me, it made a huge difference.
And also, you said, you know, the soldiers being mindful.
So, again, this gets a little bit into different traditions, but at least in some of the traditions,
the idea that one aspect of mindfulness is compassion.
So, they would say that a sniper cannot be mindful.
They can be aware of the present moment, but they're not actually being mindful because they're having the intention to kill rather than
the intention to help.
But that's a limited definition of a sniper, I would say.
In some situations, I would really hope there is a sniper.
Absolutely.
And it can be the most compassionate action to act as a sniper.
It's not, I think, it's not the standard situation, but if we go to the extreme to condemn people who decide to put their life
on the line to protect others, I'm not so comfortable with this idea, to be honest.
So, in probably 99% of situations are 99.9%, so I agree, yeah.
But there are other situations.
I think that comes into intention, though.
So, I guess if it's a compassionate person you're protecting versus the hatred of the person you're killing.
Yes, but you can be a very compassionate sniper, at least in theory, I think.
I don't know.
I don't know how it is practiced because I'm not in the army.
I mean, Steven Pinker, if we, you know, I don't know where the evidence is exactly, Steven Pinker thinks that there's less killing per capita now
than there has been in all of human history.
So, you know, so that's a possible answer.
I don't think I have an answer.
You have an answer.
Yeah, I'm deeply concerned about the world.
I feel like the world, the natural, as we know it, world is in deep trouble.
And I think that there's not a lot of meditative mind.
If you open the paper in politics, there's so much polarization.
There's so much focus on what, you know, the transactional approaches to things.
What am I going to get?
And I'm deeply concerned about those things.
I don't have the answer, but I'm concerned about it.
I can say that.
Me too.
Again, a question for Peter about the teacher whose brain imaging was clear to everyone that there was a differential between
arresting state and his imaging.
And also, of course, the students.
What was the nature of that, of the activity image?
For example, was it more of a pan-cortical activity?
Was there more synchrony between different brain areas that was persistent over time?
No, it actually was across the whole range of parameters.
If you want, including increased oscillary activities in the, almost in the whole frequency range that we usually look at
from very low frequencies up to, well, in this case, we looked up to 128 hertz.
So across the whole spectrum.
And also, I'm seeing it was a few years ago.
Yeah, and this was actually also when evident in different meditative conditions.
Was there any, I don't have to get the name of the brain structure right now, forgive me.
But there's something unique in the human prefrontal cortex, it's bilateral, that is, there's a recent paper about this,
about six months ago, that is dedicated to projecting multiple potential futures
and enabling simultaneous evaluation, probabilistically of which is best to engage, best to follow.
And if I could remember that it would be easier, but remember the name of it,
I would submit possibly that that was actually lower activation,
because that person would not be so engaged in planning either on a very basic level
or on a very conscious level, and it's just a speculation.
So it's a little more complex than that.
Okay.
Because what happens is so, yes, some area may get turned off during meditation,
but what's really clear is that the wiring is actually changing, and so,
and how that area may be wired to other areas is changing.
And so, because it is the case that, you know, when you're not in meditation,
you may need to be thinking about your future, and you may need to be planning, you know,
and seeing your three different possible futures or whatnot.
But when you do that activity, your brain's going to be wired a different way,
and so you're going to think about those three options a different way.
Okay, thanks.
And just to comment that if anyone wants to respond,
but I was thinking that the problem with the,
the now doesn't exist, and the now is the only thing that exists,
is that they're in different contexts.
The former is really from physics, right, because time is continually flowing in a unit.
Well, there are some exceptions on the quantum level time reversal, but aside from that,
that it is the case that it's flowing from future to present,
that moment is just a transitory entity, if you will, a passage,
not a thing in and of itself, but from the awareness of the process of being a
temporarily aware individual, it is only the present moment.
That's how I see it. Thank you.
Related to the question of biases that came up briefly,
there's a major problem in many areas of psychology these days about reproducibility of results.
Journal's only one of published positive results.
There's really no incentive for people to reproduce other experiments,
and I'm just wondering how this area of research is dealing with these problems.
That paper was debunked.
No, it wasn't debunked.
Oh, yes it was.
Was that? No, there's a paper that just came out.
I know about that. I know about that.
They couldn't reproduce their findings, and they found all sorts of problems with their signs.
It wasn't as bad as they did, but it's still a major problem.
Not as bad as they thought though.
Not as bad, but it's a problem.
Because the original paper said that only 30% of the science could be reproduced,
but in truth it's closer to 80 or 90% that could be reproduced.
That's what they found.
When they actually went in, and that's the thing, they said that the people who did the original study
used really poor methods, both in how they reproduced the study and tried to reproduce the studies
and in the math that they used.
For instance, one of the studies they did, the original study was done in the US with,
I forget, what age, and then the reproduction study was done in Europe with a completely different population.
They didn't reproduce it, but it was like, okay, well you didn't reproduce the conditions.
We were even close to reproducing the conditions.
So what do you do in Europe, and how do you reproduce it accurately?
Right, so we are doing reproduc- so good science usually what you do is you do a study,
and then the next study you reproduce it, but you add something extra to it.
So that's what we're doing.
So our first study was we showed there were changes pre-post eight weeks of practice, right?
But that's all we did was show change in brain structure.
So now we're doing a study, you know, we're doing that, but then we're also adding additional measures
so that we will be able to hopefully reproduce what we did, but then we'll also be able to add on to it.
And I think a lot of scientists do do that, where there is replication inherent in the study
because in order to build on it, I have to reproduce it to then do the next steps with it.
Yeah, and the other people said we produce your results, and you reproduce other people's results?
Yes, definitely.
I mean, definitely, I mean, I think I've done some stuff that he's done, and there's definitely...
So that's the thing, I think that it was a very sensational paper, that original one, and it's got a lot of attention.
But in fact, I don't think the situation is anywhere near as bad as people are trying to make it out to be.
There is a ton of reproducibility in science, and there's a ton of me too science.
So a lot of the stuff really does get reproduced.
But we still think that, I mean, now if we apply this question of how much is reproduced with, let's say, within meditation research,
I think most of the results we have, they are still on quite shaky feet, I would say.
We see some convergence, but most of it, for my taste, it's not sufficiently replicated,
and the evidence is not sufficiently strong, that we can really stand there and say this is exactly how it is.
And I mean, even if this particular paper and so on, one can question it,
I think it is, for me at least, it's a general concern of how the science economy functions.
That's actually, I'm rewarded in my career if I do something sexy, and I'm not rewarded in my career if I do something really solid.
And I think it's a real concern. It's rather rushed to do something new to get into this particular journal
that only publishes it if it's completely new or you have very good connections.
And things like this, which is a real problem.
And if now another problem I see, for instance, in this field of meditation research, there's so much attention,
and meanwhile also money, funding going into particular programs.
And the most popular ones are mindfulness-based stress reduction, mindfulness-based cognitive therapy,
particularly in the UK, that actually this is where all the resources are sucked into.
This is where all the people are trained in. This is where the whole attention is on.
And this means that at the same time, alternative approaches don't actually even have the chance to demonstrate
the very effectiveness and so on.
So actually what I think what we're seeing to a large extent in this field is a narrowing instead of widening.
And hopefully it's just a short term narrowing, then later on it gets wider. But I don't know.
So actually, although I know there's a lot of discussion about this particular point, I think what they emphasize,
something that's true for meditation research, I think, and that's also true for other areas, not only psychology.
And I think most of the models in physics have never been replicated because there's no research to do,
and they're just theoretical models anyway. So that's another question maybe.
So the strength of the evidence, I think we have to be really careful.
I totally agree with that. And my question about bias was, I like that counter question, but it was sort of philosophical
in the sense that I've never seen research go very far that contradicted the personal opinions of the researcher.
Right, I were to put it the other way around. Everyone that enters a given meditation tradition
that has a good relationship with the people in it proved to themselves that that tradition is correct.
In other words, they get the results that they were looking for.
Well, I know, but that's...
Then it just...
Hi, my name is Jesse. First of all, thank you for all sharing your insights. I really enjoyed the discussion.
My question is... I guess I'll start with... I've studied a lot of Buddhist teachings and various teachings
regarding that. A lot of meditation in them.
And one thing that I've always came across is sometimes a lot of the teachings,
either Russian way of parts of human being a human, or are they contradict themselves?
And one example is relationships. So the notion about attachment, whether the huge thing between Buddhism,
or particular about being attached. But then there's also mindfulness jargon about mindfulness and relationships
and not being attached in romance relationships.
I'm like, what the hell does that even mean? It's not there to have a attached or romance relationship.
It doesn't make a country, so...
So I guess my question is...
It doesn't just keep our avoiding the big elements in the room.
I was going to talk to him when we were talking about mindfulness and the fact that we are in perfect means
and actually... I don't even know if I'm going to say it perfect, because sometimes I suggest this notion that
as we were talking earlier, this whole year than now, whole year than...
It's a whole year than now notion of being kind of guru that is above me.
Based desires like sexuality and the desire to really connect with people and be angry when in reality it's like...
You know, if lust and anger and all of these other things that we...
that seems like so many times I hear put down are very real and feel them...
How do you address that?
Ah, huh.
What a wonderful thing to explore.
At least for a lifetime, I think.
I mean, I don't know how many answers, certainly, but I...
I'm not even interested lately in answers about it, but...
I think that one of the things that's a common misunderstanding is that there's this idea of non-attachment,
which is really what it means, the original meaning in a clay show was that it's about not clinging,
which is very different from feeling an attachment.
But when I know when I want to cling to something, it doesn't feel great.
Whether it's a person or a state of mind or some outer reality, wow, it feels shitty.
And also, when someone is being clinging towards me, it doesn't feel good.
And so, to me, it's about just, you know, one of my favorite Zen teachers, Uchi Amaroshi,
just talked about maybe the whole practice is learning how to open our hand.
You know, so in some ways about just noticing the moments when we're like this and learning how to open our hand.
So it's we're not clinging to something. It doesn't mean you're not feeling a connection or love or desire
or anything, but it's not like mine, mine or yours, yours.
I don't know.
So, another, because that's similar, for me, I think it's important, what was for me was understanding that
a lot of the teachings in the time of the Buddha were aimed at monks, you know, people who are not lay people
and he had very different teachings for lay people than he did for the monks.
And so the whole thing of, you know, extinguishing the fire is a lust and greed and hatred, that's for the monks.
You know, he doesn't expect the, you know, householders to be able to do that, because, I mean, you really, you need 30 years on a cave to do that.
So, but I think it's something to, you know, decrease those.
And I think, by the way, he's talking of like, you know, not being so tightly attached.
So it's not eliminating, it's reducing.
Thank you. Thank you.
Hi.
I like that somebody had said everything is natural.
And so my question is on anxiety disorders and kind of the unbalanced mind.
I had a panic attack, which I never had before.
A few months ago, back in November, and kind of found myself stuck in a kind of fear of fear kind of place.
And I downloaded this app called Headspace, which is like guided meditation.
And that has really helped me find a balance of mind again and return to normalcy.
And, but there was a push when I first went to the doctors for going for medication and stuff.
And since there's like a history of depression and stuff in my family, they were leaning towards medication.
And I found that I didn't want to go that route because I've seen the effects of medication that I've had on members of my family.
So my curiosity is if there is any data that you guys have or thoughts that kind of reflect that kind of similarities or differences in the changes of the wiring of the brain or the functioning of the mind between medication and meditation.
There are studies.
I mean, okay, I'm first not talking about the neuroscience, but more on the clinical data.
I would say before I mentioned actually the data is not very robust.
The one area that has whether data are most robust is actually the use of mindfulness-based cognitive therapy for treating people with recurrent depression.
This is the best established evidence in the whole area and there the evidence shows that it is as effective as medication.
So and the basic what it actually means, I think you can choose between meditation and medication.
So that's and then at least in the UK for now there's a big discussion with depression being such a huge problem in society how to generate the provision for this.
So how to make sure that actually there are enough people who can offer mindfulness-based cognitive therapy because it's not something you can just pick up like this
to a weekend course and then you're there.
But so from the clinical research, I would say this is the best established evidence that we have so far.
So and maybe you want to say something from the neuroscience.
So if you decide to go for the meditation or medication or physical exercise, actually it's your choice.
Yeah, for sure different medication may work on your brain on your body in a different way.
They target different system.
They target certain system that also you influence the other system.
Let's see you use the term called balance.
Refer to your question balance.
Yeah, so you know if a person has a depression problem so the doctor tend to give the stimulants try to change.
If more anxiety, more anxious tend to use the depressant, this kind of medication try to balance.
Right, then you will see how brain response, how physical response.
If you overdose it or run dosage, go to another extreme.
So you go to the meditation or swimming or working or other.
It's a natural way.
But meditation is helpful but doesn't mean to feed everybody.
Nothing can feed everybody.
So it's your choice but you need to study but the most so engaged in the concept data.
There are so many things.
You ask your good friend.
You ask your family member. You ask people who love you.
Give you an idea.
Maybe much better.
And it sounds like you found a good one.
Yeah, thank you very much.
Appreciate it.
So my question has to do with belief.
I feel like in society especially western culture, I can't speak about eastern culture, I haven't experienced it.
But the western culture, there is an absence of belief and faith in society.
There's a decline of religion or at least classical forms of religion.
And more interest in mindfulness or meditation, these different types of self-sustaining understandings.
So what my question really is, what is the importance of belief?
And I don't mean in the sense of like, yes, of course if you believe in something and you do it,
then you are likely to obtain what you've set up to do.
But in the actual meditative state, I mean, do you have to, we talked about being, right?
So, I mean is there a belief of being or is there an absence of belief?
I'm a little confused in that regard and I just want to understand the belief relevance to the meditative state.
I got a point.
Actually, the being or doing or whatever other term is not the thought of process.
It's action-based process.
Like if you're hungry, you got eating.
You feel thirsty, you drink, right?
So I think Western mind wants to make everything precisely controlled.
Like we have exact language.
I'm going to visit London tomorrow.
I use I will then tomorrow.
Actually, it doesn't need will.
I go to London tomorrow.
Tomorrow everybody knows will, right?
So we try to conceptualize everything in detail that we believe, okay, we can move from here.
But in reality, many, many things are beyond the concept.
You learn language when you are a child.
You just learn from implicit learning, right?
Yeah, many, many things.
We have two ways you can do explicit learning.
So you want to find out the meaning, concept, reasoning, capacity.
Another part of implicit, most of God feeling.
So when I train the people, I always encourage people to make decisions, to follow their own heart and feeling.
Sometimes you feel good.
You do it.
Not good.
I don't listen to others.
I follow my heart, my feeling.
Because most people are living in a small box.
We are fixed train from previous experience, learning, school, education, parents, media.
But we never think how we should do.
But we only told what we should do.
We never think why, how we can do.
We can create differently.
And in their part, you need your own thinking.
Confusion is a good step.
Confusion means you think in different ways, right?
You think in different ways you compare, then you find a way.
In this reality, actually, just based on your question, you don't need to worry, this is good, this is bad.
This thing will help you.
Help others.
Know how others you can do.
You learn from doing.
This is the present moment.
I would just add, I appreciate what you are saying.
I know many people come to our center to learn how to meditate because they have a belief and faith that they are going to feel more peaceful and better.
They are going to feel better.
And I usually try to raise the flag of like, it is not the place you want to come then.
Actually, it is not about that.
It is about being with whatever is arising.
But if you are going for better or you have a belief in that you are going to feel better or peaceful or serene or whatever it is, you should go to somewhere else.
So I think in some ways some of the beliefs I think sometimes get in the way of actual our experience.
Maybe going back to your point about just the path itself.
Yeah.
Thank you.
Hi, my question has to do with meditation and its effect on job performance.
Specifically, is there any study out there that has looked into how meditation has affected people's performance on the job and even looking at specific jobs such as ones that are high stress versus ones that are low stress,
baseball player versus secretary, EMT professional versus lawyers, snipers versus carpenters?
I don't know about that last part.
There are definitely studies showing that impacts workplace.
You might be interested in a book called Search Inside Yourself.
So out at Google there was a guy who was in charge of HR, started meditating, he realized this was really good.
He tried to bring MBSR into Google. No one signed up, even though they are all stressed out.
He realized, okay, well, so they called it mindfulness for interpersonal interaction or something like that because that's all the programmers really got something they were willing to know that they needed help with.
So they all started to do mindfulness for that reason and of course they got the stress reduction benefits as well.
So there's also a book by George Mumford.
He worked with a bunch of elite basketball players.
There's several people who have worked with elite sports athletes bringing mindfulness to it and again it's been extremely beneficial.
So George Berkeley and stuff like that have used mindfulness among other people.
So definitely, so I don't know about every single solitary and is it better for this per-time person versus that per person but certainly even for high stress people for athletes, it's highly effective.
There's also quite a few Wall Street bankers who admitted that the only way they could do what they do is because they're going to take.
Hi.
I recently came across a few graphs.
I think it was of EEGs if I'm not mistaken.
When the brain frequencies of the frontal mid and the hind are all at the same level, a certain magic happens.
And I think I know for sure, trends in dental meditation and there are other methods out there that are lesser research.
I'm wondering if anyone here has input on what exactly comes of that magic so to speak in the short and long term over someone's period of life.
Whether it accumulates, accelerates, exponential, anything having to do with just when all the brain frequencies throughout the brain are evenly balanced.
You'll go first.
I don't know about this.
I'm not sure about the magic to be honest.
Maybe we should not use the magic.
I think if we talk about the brain wave, we use EEG.
Peter has done lots of work using EEG on mindfulness meditation.
We also have some study.
Our brain always sends the message through the electric wave based on the neurotransmitter.
They always work.
One person receives meditation.
There are various meditation.
Many years ago, one kind of meditation can improve the pathway from the back of the brain that moves the front.
There are recent messages that also find the sit-away.
The pathway is when you close your eyes, the pathway increases a little bit.
When people age, the pathway decreases.
Sit-away means the result in the attention state, but they also relax.
It's a little bit slow.
Some meditation study also found a gamma wave very fast.
I think this is just one index of brain activity.
Something happened in the brain.
Some people explain, you are more attentive.
This is why after a wave was sit-away.
Some people said, the brain more synchronized.
This is why gamma wave.
It's just like we sleep every night, so you bring with change.
The integration is that gamma or theta, or when there is the integrative effect, what wave would fit that description.
I think we are talking about...
It's not conclusion.
I think what you are talking about is the study that Ritchie did in Antoine many years ago, where they had the monks.
When the monks go into their meditative state, they have what you are describing, which is a high-emblety gamma across the entire brain.
I don't know if they called it magic, though.
They said that when the monks are meditating, that's what happens.
You want to say something?
Peter, you want to say something?
What did I want to say?
Sorry.
Something about the magic, I hope.
About the magic?
That's what we want to hear about.
I think I just wanted to add, because it was a question of synchronization for any oscillating activity, for any brainwaves to be picked up.
This means that this is an indication that there is synchronization.
Otherwise, if every neuron was firing randomly on its own, we wouldn't pick up anything from the surface.
It doesn't matter which frequency range we look at.
Whenever we see a clear oscillating activity, this means that there is a large...
The wave is a synchronization.
This is an index that there is synchronization.
Then the general idea is if the higher frequency range is like gamma and so on,
from 35 hertz upwards, that this is synchronization that happens more on the local level.
It's more close in specific brain regions, more or less,
a closely related brain, a located brain region, and then the slower oscillations
that there are more related to long-range synchronization.
This gives a bit of an idea, but for anything meaningful to happen in the brain,
we need this synchronization.
We need a lot of neurons doing the same thing at the same time.
This then actually shows up as electrical activity on the brain,
and one cannot draw conclusions from seeing that there is a wave.
What the content of the experience is, of course, we cannot see at all.
One cannot necessarily say that an increase is better than a decrease,
or the decrease is better than an increase.
We just see maybe some changes, and then we need to introspection,
the subjective experience to actually link what we observe in brain activity,
to link it, what actually might be happening.
Then we can get some understanding what these different signatures might mean.
There we are still very much at the beginning.
Linking so-called third-person data to first-person data.
There are some discussions how we can do this, and a few attempts are doing this,
but it's still quite limited.
Can I just add this?
I'm just thinking about your bias question, much earlier on.
Another way of looking at it is actually that we're using first-person data there.
Of course, you can see there's a bias, but actually, for studying meditation,
ideally the researcher has some idea what they're studying.
In the same way that maybe somebody who studies sports has some idea what the sport is.
Just in some disciplines, people are more skeptical about biases than in other disciplines,
because maybe it looks more subjective, because it's not so easy to observe it from outside.
Just at one point.
I think people tend to interpret certain neural markers of physiology index as good or bad.
We turn to, because from our belief, experience.
Just like Peter said, the increase or decrease in the brainwave, certain things,
it cannot include, increase good, decrease bad.
So decrease, just hormone, we think is good.
Yeah, increase brain activity seems good, but some study also show the increase in the
process of effort.
You are not in relaxed state, not safe in the energy.
So related to bias, so everybody has bias, including researcher, because everybody is in learning
journey for the whole life, we certainly have bias.
We acknowledge.
Also science, it doesn't mean it's a guaranteed way.
You can show the absolute truth.
It's a relative truth.
We just try to track the truth.
We are on the way, in other conclusion yet.
Yeah.
Sarah, unfortunately, the future is now improving.
Sarah has to catch a train.
Thank you, Sarah.
Thank you.
That's a pleasure.
Okay.
You can, we are not stopping.
You can leave.
You can ask your question.
I come out of the extreme western edge of the eastern intuitive traditions.
And there's a formulation from Philip Capo, Capo Roshi, that unlike what you said, the
Buddhist path depends on three pillars, one of them being faith in the record of transmission,
that there is something to be reached.
It can't necessarily be accurately described in language, but that faith as a structuring
in his view was imperative.
And I was sort of disappointed in his disciple or the son of one of his brother disciples,
not bringing that onto the floor.
In regard to the reworking of negative emotion, what Philip Capo Roshi also was very clear.
And I heard him in person advocate one hour of meditation a day to keep a practice going
in his mind that was sufficient and two hours to move forward.
And once I started to practice that, I realized that it was like clockwork, that there would
be a shift of experience.
And it would last the first shift in experience into a relaxation kind of thing, an a calmness.
Wouldn't really shift my experience the rest of the day, but what would happen at the second
and third increments were decisive in reworking my emotional life for the entire rest of the
day.
And that's talked about in the western edge of these traditions in the Kabbalah as being
as each of us having levels of soul or five levels of soul.
And when you activate a higher level in that mapping, it's just a mapping, then the energies
are still there, but they reworked in a greater integration.
And okay, so now I wanted to ask the panel about something related to that teaching of
Philip Capo Roshi, who was really the first American Zen master.
In advocating an hour a day of meditation as a minimum for keeping a meditative practice
going, what I hear around me for the last decade in the Buddhist world and also in the TM
world is 20 minutes a day we'll do you.
And that's not my experience about something.
It's neither what I heard from a master or in my experience it's not borne out.
So is that just marketing?
What is that about?
And what's the research about quantity and quality?
So good question actually.
You ask the quantity and quality of practice and what this quantity and quality can benefit,
can you influence the life, right?
Just my experience.
Yeah, when I started my training, when I was young, so it pushed me hard.
Similar to you, we do at least two hours per session, try to build the foundation of your
physiology change.
It's my experience.
And later on, when you build this phase of the change, like very intensive training,
make something change, right?
This kind of change can transfer to the daily life, but you need to be aware.
So our study also shows the lens of training, lens of practice really matter.
It means lasting effect can influence.
Also the quality of practice is most important.
Like you sit an hour, but always man wandering.
So the quality of practice maybe just five minutes, ten minutes.
It happened.
So in market, I think everybody's busy.
When I moved to US, I was told New Yorker is a busy street, right?
Yeah, this is why American love the fast food, fast life.
So certainly the person cannot practice an hour to hour per day, but they can do 20
minutes, 30 minutes.
Like I don't have a five star hotel room to leave, but I can leave a three star.
So I just, I think it's the flexible way, it's the compromising way, but if a person
really want to become a professional, whatever trainer, master practitioner, as I learned
from my teacher, my master, they practice over two hours per day, over.
And they enjoy, they not just a first time to do, I need to one hour to hour, no, they
enjoy.
You can't not do it once you start.
It's just the quality of life is just, it's something different entirely.
It's the world to come, that's the way it's talked about in the Western tradition.
It's entering the world to come while you're here.
Yes, I think you may have a different idea, right?
I've met many people who have meditated for decades, many, many long retreats and long
hours and are complete assholes.
Well, because I've met myself, you know, but the quality versus the quantity thing is
important.
On the one hand, on the other hand, I do think to get good at something, if we think of
it as a skill or a tool, it also takes practice.
So I think both of those things are true.
The faith question is a different question.
But I think it's dangerous to think about if you just clock in enough hours, then you're
good.
I think that's, I'm always worried about that.
And so I think it's more about dedication and relationship.
But the suffering of the quantum leap kicks in, that's better when you have, when you
see how long it takes, you can let it say.
There's nothing to argue with, it's just so exciting.
These are the last two questions and please make them brief because we are over our time.
So this question is informed by two of the conversations that have been.
One of them was the conversation about intention when, I forget, I don't know, I don't remember
the lady's name, but was talking about the importance of intention when you're meditating.
And then the other conversation was the one where, sorry, I clearly don't know anyone's
name, but when you were talking about the Buddha, the Sangha, and the Dharma, and how
it's more than just meditation.
And that got me thinking because in theory, if I were like an evil person or like very
selfish, I could just do concentration meditation, get very good at concentrating, make myself
more effective at getting rich and powerful and harmful or whatever.
So if you look at meditation or how meditation is studied in labs, is it just extracted from
the greater picture that it is of the Buddha, the Dharma, and the Sangha?
And is that a fair, are we short-changing the tradition from which it's steeped?
That's a good question.
Well, I think when you take the Sangha out, you're short-changing the tradition.
You're actually leaving out like the third leg of a stool, which doesn't stand well.
And for me, when I don't have relationships with peers in a process, I get pretty in
my head.
And so I think to stay in relationship is so, for me, has been really essential for my
process and my path.
And it's not easy.
I think it's a hard one.
But I think that I'd be so curious if that's ever even brought in as a variable for in research.
Go ahead.
Yeah.
Of course, as when we're doing empiricules or scientific research, we somehow, we have
to kind of define and limit the conditions that we're working in.
So the one question is, how are we investigating this?
And I think another question is, how is meditation practice applied in the world?
And for some research, we try to isolate the meditation more so especially if we're directly
interested in what are the, for instance, neural processes of what is going on.
If the influences are so complex, including other people, then actually we might not see
such pure signals if you want.
So that's the one thing.
But as long as the research, the science is aware of it that we're kind of like we do
in many other fields as well, that we isolate it to study it.
But then that it's about putting it together again.
And I think this is fine.
If one then would take it to mean that meditation practice in isolation, on one's own, without
any framework, without intention, without just doing it as an isolated technique would
be the way, then I think we would make a mistake.
I think it's a great question and I would want to look at it both in its historical
context but also outside of it because those three words are specific to the Buddhist tradition.
So if you say, well, how is that going to be applicable to everyone?
I translate it as something like the Buddha has to do, that orientation has to do with
the transparency of your own awareness to yourself.
In other words, a kind of a self-knowledge that maybe comes about through meditation
or maybe through something else.
The Dharma is the law of the psyche or the law that you find that works in terms of the
structure of how you are in the world.
And Sanga is your community.
So that might be two people, might be five people.
It doesn't have to be a religious community.
It's, you know, we're all embedded in community.
So the question is how do we relate to each other, you know, dare I say in the here and
now?
Just to contradict myself.
Thank you.
I had one thing related to the individual group.
Yeah, research certainly wants to limit the factors, so want to get something then try
to add more.
But in reality, my data shows.
So actually the tuner, the teacher also is an active ingredient in the meditation.
Then the group setting, like community, we use the group relationship, the dynamic,
we also important in supporting some people, not everyone.
Some people prefer individual practice.
Some people benefit more from the group session.
We find a bold situation.
Yeah.
So some people even said this culture more individualized culture than Eastern more
collective culture.
But I find the all difference.
It depends on the person.
Yeah.
I would agree.
I was hoping that some of you would have discussed the benefits of meditation.
In meditating, it helps me bring my awareness and my attention into a single moment, focusing
on the breath.
And I can, when I apply it to reading, to bring that same degree of concentration to
reading, it not only speeds the rate at which it wouldn't raise, but it improves recollection
and cognition.
Another thing is that meditation helps me find my own center.
It helps me focus on what other people are saying without my judging and without my thinking
about what I'm going to say in response.
I've been hyperkinetic, from the time I was a child, I'm still my old age.
It's very difficult to sit still.
But in meditation, I can find the stresses in the various places in my body.
And I can focus on that and make peace with that and let it, you know, I can sit still
in meditation where it's very difficult to do it at other times.
And there were so many things that meditation really helps in dealing with my daily life
and I was hoping that, you know, this discussion would have included more of that.
But nonetheless, thank you very much.
Thank you.
That's it.